---
title: "Understanding Bundles, Arrays & Collections in Make.com"
video_id: "R0z5hzfWfVQ"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R0z5hzfWfVQ"
publish_date: "2025-04-25"
duration: "13:10"
duration_seconds: 790
view_count: 4486
author: "Deep Dive with The AI Automators"

yt_tags:
  []



# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "Tutorial"
primary_topic: "AI Strategy"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Engineers"
  - "Product Managers"
entities:
  companies:
    - "OpenAI"
    - "Google"
    - "Slack"
  people:
    []
  products:
    - "Claude"
    - "Make"
  models:
    []
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "# Understanding Bundles, Arrays & Collections in Make"
keywords:
  - "ai-tools"
  - "claude"
  - "coding"
  - "google"
  - "make"
  - "openai"
  - "product-management"
  - "slack"
  - "workflows"
---

# Understanding Bundles, Arrays & Collections in Make.com

In this video, I'm going to explain bundles, collections, and arrays within make.com. These are essential data structures that you really need to understand in order to build more intermediate and complex scenarios. And I'm going to try to make my examples as practical and understandable as possible. A bundle really is a make.com concept. It signifies one record or row of data that will be processed individually in a scenario. To get started with an example, we have a Google Sheets module here where it's going to search for all the rows within this orders spreadsheet. If I click run once and examine the results, I'll zoom in a little bit here. We see we have bundles of information. And in each of these cases, it's going to process each of these separately. So if I add in a new module after this, I'm going to just type set variable. And I'm going to call this name variable name. And then the variable value will be the customer name. I'll press save. Press for save again. I'll run once. That's going to pick up all of these modules again. And it's run this module once and then this module 10 times. So we see bundle one. And then we go into this set variable module. You look under the execution history of this that it has 10 different operations. So every single bundle if we look into that variable name, we have John Smith and then the next time around it's Sarah Johnson. So each of those correspond to each individual row. They've individually been processed. Generally a bundle is going to have some sort of data inside it. And this is where three different data structures come into play. First off, we have an individual data item. So this is a customer name, a product quantity. So that's the lowest granularity of data that we can use and it's very easy to map those. So for example, when you look at the pop out menu, when you click on a field within another module, you can reference the past data. So I can map in an individual data item from there. It's pretty handy. Then we have collections and arrays. I'm going into a scenario here where we're watching for new emails. I'm going to unlink this for a moment. And this is looking out for emails that contain invoices and attachments. I've clicked run once on that. And let's look at the result. This contains all of the different data types within one response, which is pretty cool. So we have our one bundle and then underneath that we have a collection of lots of different other data items. So we have a data item here which is date, the email ID, size, thread ID and so on. But then we have two other key types of data structures. We have a collection and we have an array. This collection is effectively just a grouping of other fields. So if you wanted to select that, I'm going to just type set variable and then I'm going to add in a new variable just to illustrate this point. I'm going to call this variable name test. And then you can very easily drag and drop in items from a collection. However, it's a little bit more complicated when it comes to arrays because an array is a list of items. If we look at this labels array, an email can have multiple different labels such as maps, important and whatever other labels that are present within Gmail. In this case, each label is just a simple data item. Whereas within this attachments array, we have an ordered list of items and each item corresponds to an individual attachment and that attachment needs to have multiple attributes associated with it such as a file name, a meme type, contin file size and also the data associated with that. So within each individual attachment item, we have a bunch of different fields and all of those fields are grouped into one collection. So that might be a little bit confusing, but let's see how would it be possible for us to get the data from that attachment. One very easy way to do it is to go into tools and then going to zoom out a tiny bit. Go to attachments. Then let's say I want to get the file name from that attachment. If I type in number one there, it's going to get the first item from that array. If I type number two, it'll get the second item. So let's just attempt that. I'll press save. I'm going to rightclick, choose a start, select all emails again. So it should go back to that first email that I got the first time around. I'm going to press run once. And there we go. It looks like it got the second attachment. 2635 and 2635. That's a way that we can map an item from an array into another module based on its place in the array. And its place in the array is marked by its index. That's a number of its place in the array. And within make.com, the number starts with number one. Whereas, if you're used to programming, arrays will usually be zero base. So the first number will be zero. Whereas in make.com, they start with number one. So that's something to keep in mind. So then at a high level, a collection is a grouping of fields. An array is a list of items. Bundles and arrays are very similar concepts. It's just that bundles are a particular make.com concept that's used to define the execution of a flow within a scenario. So for example, let's take this Google Sheets row. This is where iterators and aggregators come in. There are many times where you are going to want to loop through the items in an array because in a lot of cases, you're not going to know or be able to target individual items based on their index. One good example is this invoice parsing automation on our channel where we're watching out for invoice emails and then we're going to iterate through all of those emails and upload the attachments to Google Drive. In this case, we're taking an iterator. So that's taking an array and it's going to separate all of those out into individual bundles. And when we have individual bundles, it's going to execute each of those individually. Let's go through an example of that. I'm going to go back, choose where to start, select all emails, and then press play. It's going to pick up that email. It broke each of those out into separate bundles and because of that it executed each of those separately. So if you have an iterator it's going to fork out the flow and execute all of those one by one. On the opposite end of that you could have an aggregator. So where you have a bundle and you want to aggregate all of those bundles into either a number or text or into an array. One of the simplest examples is a numeric aggregator. For example, you would have this list of orders. I'm going to run this automation which is searching for all of those rows. It then aggregates all of those together. So this the total price. So within this we have a numeric aggregator. The source module is this search rows. The aggregate function is sum. And then it's going to aggregate all of those values together. So the end result of all of these bundles is this number. And then from there it sent me the slack message. We have a separate video on iterators and aggregators on our channel which you can look through and explain these in a bit more detail. But I'm going through these to really try to explain a highle overview of the differences between these data structures. Another good example here is where we're using an array aggregator. You can also combine bundles into an array so that then you can handle all of those into one execution. The key to understand here is that by using this aggregator, we're combining all of these into one flow. Because otherwise, if we use this search rows function and then created a Slack message for every single one of those, I'll just press play now. It will send 10 different Slack messages because there were 10 different rows. So I open up my Slack and then all of a sudden I have 10 separate messages. Another example of where we're combining bundles into an array is using an array aggregator. In the case of a numeric aggregator, we were combining all of these into an individual item of text. However, you may want to use an array in one call in a scenario. Take the example of this Google Sheets row where we want to slice some of that data and dump all of those into this Google sheet. Again, I've gone through this in the iterator and aggregator video marked in the description. But to explain this concept through the lens of the bundle and array topic that we're currently talking about. If I click run once on this scenario, it's going to take everything in that Google sheet within this array aggregator. It's going through each of these bundles and converted them all into one array. And then we're sending this entire array to Google Sheets in one go using this bulk add rows. Arrays are very important to understand because there are just so many cases where you're going to need to send a list of items to an external service or to another module, but where you're clearly not going to want to iterate the flow for every single one of those items. You can also use functions within make.com to work with items in an array. So let's take this Google Sheets example again. We could aggregate all of those bundles into an array. So press save from there. Press save anyways and click run once. From there, it's taken all of those and now we have an array of each of those items. From there, we could use a set variable module just to show what the output would be here. Let's say from this entire list, all we want to do is get the email addresses of all of these individual people. So, what you can do is go to variable value and then go into this functions for working with arrays tab here and then select the map function. Then from there, go back and then go down and select the array. So, this is the overall array item there. Then you need to define the key. So, use raw variable names for keys. So you may be tempted to write in customer name B here. But if you hover over the customer name in the email, you see the raw value for that. So the value for that is actually two. And that actually is pretty confusing. This is zerobased numbering for this particular array. But that's how this data is structured. So this is number two. Press save. Press save again. And when we execute that, we'll zoom into that. And now we have a simple array of email addresses. That's an array. But let's say we want to combine all of those into one individual line of text. You could use the join function. So we need to take these and cut those to the very end. We need to take those and then add this map section into the very start. And then we'll complete out this formula. So this is the array we're working from. And then we want to separate each of those items with a comma. Let's say press save. Save again. Now run once. And now all of a sudden we should have each of those email addresses separated by commas. When you look at this, you'll see the input bundles. The ability to view input and output bundles is very handy within make.com. So go to download output bundles and then you'll be able to copy all of that out into a notepad file, for example, and then you'll be able to see what the values of that particular variable are. But when you look at that, you'll also realize that everything happens in JSON format. So I could copy out this data and then open up a new scenario within mech.com. go to JSON and then I'm going to just copy and paste that right in. Press save. I'll click run once and now from there that is parsed into the exact same format that we had within here. So all these individual bundles and data items and arrays and collections are make.com's data structured version of these JSON strings. Generally make.com is an integration app. It takes data from one system to another and it does some processing and almost all of the time these APIs interact with each other using JSON. JSON is JavaScript object notation and it's within this simple example. It uses this structure where you have a curly bracket and you can have a key and a value. So name Alice age 30 and hobbies and then you have the array within that. So let's press save for save again. And then we'll run this. And now we see what that data representation looks like within make.com. So again, you go in, we see we have name, age, email, hobbies. And that representation is we have one bundle. We have a name Alice, age 30, email, and then we have an array of hobbies, reading, hiking, chess. Now we have another JSON string here. Again, this is something that you could get from an API. I'll press save, run once again. And each of those are represented as individual bundles. Now we have a very similar list to the previous one except we have an individual object and a JSON list. So we have an array within that. Now if I press save, I'll click run once, run anyway. Now we have an individual bundle, but we have a list of names. That's an array. So when this is executed within a make scenario, these will all be executed at once compared to previously they're executed individually. It's very common for users that use mech.com that are interacting with an external service using a HTTP module or where you call in OpenAI for example and if you want them to respond in a JSON format in this list of items. So you want them to respond with a big array of items whereas they may be responding in this kind of format. It's very important to understand the difference between those and this boils down to the difference between understanding how bundles and arrays are represented within make.com. Now that hopefully you understand these data structures a bit more, it should be easier for you to interact with external services such as if an app is not present within make.com, you might need to use a HTTP module. When you're doing that, you're very likely going to need to construct a JSON message. For example, in this AI image generation tool file.ai, we need to pass the prompt. When we're doing that, it's just a data item like in make.com which is the prompt and then you're passing in what the prompt is and we're constructing that prompt using claude earlier on and we're mapping that result in. In another section of this blogging system here, we're interacting with the data for SEO API and we're passing in a bunch of information as is required for this particular service. So they need to know what the location code is. As per this service's documentation, they need this information in order for it to be able to satisfy our request. So we provide all of that information in. But when we send this data to data for SEO, they're going to parse that information on their end in a very similar way to the way that we parse this information on make.com. This JSON format of data is a standardized way for us to be able to communicate this data to another system and then respond in these types of data structures that we're used to seeing within make.com. If you want to get way ahead with AI automation, then check out the link in the description to our community. We'll get access to all of our automation templates as well as all of these courses, including our make.com masterclass. We've got an active discussion board as well as a packed calendar of live workshops and lots more.
