---
title: "Make.com's HUGE New Feature (I Got Early Access)"
video_id: "xd0XdoErKZ8"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xd0XdoErKZ8"
publish_date: "2025-04-18"
duration: "10:02"
duration_seconds: 602
view_count: 1437
author: "Deep Dive with The AI Automators"

yt_tags:
  []



# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "Framework"
primary_topic: "AI Strategy"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Product Managers"
entities:
  companies:
    - "OpenAI"
    - "Google"
  people:
    []
  products:
    - "Make"
    - "Projects"
  models:
    []
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "com's HUGE New Feature (I Got Early Access)

In this video, I'm going to show you a major new make"
keywords:
  - "ai-agents"
  - "ai-tools"
  - "frameworks"
  - "google"
  - "make"
  - "openai"
  - "product-management"
  - "projects"
  - "workflows"
---

# Make.com's HUGE New Feature (I Got Early Access)

In this video, I'm going to show you a major new make.com feature that I just got access to called great. I signed up to the wait list for this and it's currently in beta mode. But this new feature gives you a bird's eye view of all of the scenarios within your organization, such as all of the active ones I have here. Or I can show all of the scenarios which results in this massive map if you have a lot of scenarios. In this video, I'll be showing exactly how it works and who would get the most benefit from this new app. But I also have some pretty mixed opinions about this system as a whole, so I'll be sharing all of that in this video. If you get access to grid, you'll currently go through this short onboarding process and it goes through this quick explainer and it explains that grid effectively gives you this bird's eye view of how scenarios interconnect with each other. For example, we have our overall scenario. We have a Google sheet and a web hook. Likely this web hook is going to trigger the scenario and the scenario is going to modify the data within the Google sheet. This is represented as these flows within the scenario. See these purple links represent an asset triggering another and then a blue link shows how the scenario is interacting with data from another asset. I really think there should be more contrast in these colors so you can more clearly distinguish but again this is currently in beta mode. Then when you click on any of these items then you see this popup menu that shows up which is currently in read only but then it shows you some highle information about that particular asset. So within the scenario you see what it's triggering, what it's reading and writing data to the apps used and some other general information about it. Currently grid is able to detect popular or common assets that are used in a scenario. For example, the Google sheet, air table, clickup and lots more. For example, in this scenario, you see it's detected Google Drive, Google Docs, OpenAI, ClickUp, and lots more when you look across the other scenarios. But it's not available for all assets. As this continues to roll out, no doubt they will expand that list of assets quite a lot. You can also use this filter at the top left. So let's say that I want to find a blog in automation. I go and click on that and then I can zoom in to see the interconnections between that scenario. Now keep in mind I have hundreds of inactive scenarios within this account. So there's a lot of interconnections whereas in general the best way to view this is likely by selecting active and then selecting this auto align mode and then you'll see active scenarios that are on this account. Here's a good example of where we have multiple scenarios all connected to one service. This service is ClickUp which is a very popular project or task management software. If I click on this particular asset on the right hand side I can see the application is ClickUp that this is a service that's the object type and of links there are multiple scenarios that are then interacting with ClickUp. I'm currently looking at this part of the scenario which is the uncatategorized folder within this make.com account. But I can also jump to other scenarios in other projects that are also interacting with this particular service such as I'll jump to this and that shows another scenario that's interacting with ClickUp. Overall I think that's the biggest benefit of this particular app. It's a kind of a readonly exploratory tool that you can go and look at the interactions between your scenarios between services within your scenarios. So there are lots of different use cases for that. automation agencies could use this as a presentation tool to be able to explain flows and automations at a higher level. Whereas when we actually click into that scenario, if I double click on this, I go into the scenario itself within make.com and that scenario is quite a bit more difficult to explain. When I go back to the grid view, this is pretty well abstracted clickup here just to kind of simplify it a bit more. It's still a little bit complicated to be honest, but at the same time, it should be easier for someone who does not understand make.com as much to really understand the flows and the connections. It shows which directions the data is flowing. It shows this trigger in purple. So, this particular scenario is all triggered from changes of statuses of tasks within a ClickUp list. And from there, lots of different things can happen. It can trigger changes to Google Drive, an external system that I've set up. It can generate content. It can write content to Google Docs. There's lots going on there. And I've used this particular workflow for a very long time. They could simplify it a bit more, but at the same time, it is a pretty well abstracted view of the scenario. If you build your scenarios in a very modular way, for example, if you have a lot of scenarios that are performing an individual function and interconnected with each other, such as in a kind of a microservices architecture, then this grid feature could be a really useful tool where you can really see how they all interconnect with each other. For example, we have five different scenarios here that are all interacting with the ConvertKit email service. Another cool feature is that you can directly click into data sources. For example, this scenario is interacting with this Google Drive data source. Now, if I double click on that, it actually opens up that folder. So, you can examine that directly. So the fact that you can really drill down into these individual resources and get a good bird's eye view means that it's a very good exploratory tool where you could have multiple team members that are trying to onboard or hand over work to each other. And this could be a handy way to be able to understand those scenarios and to get up to speed with them pretty quickly without having to drill into every single one of them and map them all out separately. And a few other quick points in the interface. You can switch to dark mode if you want and you can also jump between 2D view and 3D view like this. So, those are the overall benefits and use cases that I see this app providing. But, I do have some mixed feelings about this as a whole. The number one point being that I don't really see this app moving the needle that much in terms of day-to-day efficiency for me building out scenarios. This app is currently read only. So it kind of serves as an overall workflow bird's eyee view to analyze scenarios to be able to communicate to other people and to be able to understand connections between them. From an overall user interface and data structure perspective, this is a hugely impressive app and it's really showing the dev skills of the Make.com team. But I got to feel that there must be an opportunity cost here where they're missing out on making direct improvements to their current interface such as by expanding out what they have in their make AI agents to make them a lot easier to work with. It would be a lot easier to execute and I think it would probably move the needle further than a much more advanced tool like this. It may be the case that make plan to port over their interface to something more like this later on, but I feel we're probably a long way away from that. And that is my main feeling about this system as a whole. It's just super impressive. It looks amazing, but it just all feels like a bit of a nice to have, but they could be focusing on far simpler features that could move the dial a lot more and be quicker to execute. So, I kind of question their strategic direction here a little bit. However, it may be the case that make have been working on this for a very, very long time and it's finally ready for a bigger beta release. Also, if I search for this same social media agent scenario directly within the grid, we see the agent is being represented, but that agent has access to multiple tools and grid currently does not show any of those connections, which I would really like to see. If it's not going to be within this interface, I think it certainly should be in this, but again, both make AI agents and their grid are both in separate beta phases, so it's not a massive surprise that the feature is not there yet. If you have pretty big scenarios, in a lot of cases here, we might see a massive amount of interconnectivity, which is not quite necessary. In all of these cases, these are communicating with OpenAI to generate AI text or images, for example. And it's not really that relevant to link those together in my opinion, because these might not actually have functional relationships between each other. It's just that they're all using AI in some shape or form. What you can do is untoggle the checkbox there to show services and then the layout will refresh and then you will have a much cleaner layout as a result of that. But I do like the idea of having services within here. It's just that certain services are probably not that relevant to be interconnected with each other. You can access grid either by using the lefthand menu up here or if you're in a particular scenario, you can press this grid button at the very top and then it will open up a new window up here. Now keep in mind it opens a new window. So that could result in a bit too much resource usage on your browser. So you might need to close other windows. But when you do that it jumps straight to that section within grid. So that's a pretty cool feature. But keep in mind again this is all read only. So this is only really for analysis purposes or for you to get a different view on that data. This appears to be a completely separate app within the overall ecosystem of make.com. So when you make updates to your scenarios, it will synchronize those updates at the very bottom. And if your data is not fully up to date, you can click this update now and then it should update the data and refresh. So the updates are near real time and you can request updates by clicking this update now where necessary. No doubt it's a good thing they're doing it this way because otherwise it would probably place a massive burden on their existing systems. Overall, the bigger the team or the bigger the organization means that this app could become more and more useful. But keep in mind, big organizations can sometimes be hesitant to use Met.com because you can't self-host it. So, you can self-host it locally or on a private cloud. But no doubt there are plenty of reasonably sized teams that would benefit from a system like this. That's my general impression about this app. As it currently stands, I think it's a hugely impressive looking app. The Make.com dev team are really showing their chops in creating a really impressive looking app. I think this still is early days in their beta phase, so no doubt they're going to be iterating on this quite a lot. But overall, those are my impressions of this as a whole. I think it offers plenty of potential for AI automation agencies for bigger teams and as a communication and analysis tool to be able to understand the interconnections between your scenarios. But I do really have some reservations on how useful this really would be as a day-to-day building tool. I got to take a step back and think that the Make.com dev team could be pouring all of that core dev effort into their main product, which could move the dial a lot more for day-to-day building of automation scenarios. But perhaps make are placing long-term bets on this, and they may be seeing updates like this as the next generation of their platform. So, what do you think of this new feature? Drop a comment below. And if you want to get way ahead with AI automation, then check out the link in the description to our community. We'll get access to all of our automation templates. You can join hundreds of fellow automators in our active discussion board. We've got a packed schedule of live events and you can get access to all of these courses right away.
