---
title: "How to Auto-post to X/Twitter from Make.com (2025 Methods)"
video_id: "ZSnkr8KMAjY"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSnkr8KMAjY"
publish_date: "2025-04-17"
duration: "24:40"
duration_seconds: 1480
view_count: 8794
author: "Deep Dive with The AI Automators"

yt_tags:
  []



# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "Tutorial"
primary_topic: "AI Strategy"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Engineers"
  - "Executives"
entities:
  companies:
    - "Box"
    - "Zapier"
    - "Twitter"
    - "X"
  people:
    - "Elon Musk"
  products:
    - "Zapier"
    - "Make"
    - "n8n"
  models:
    - "Llama"
concepts:
  - "We're providing offline"
summary:
  - "com issued a statement saying that they were removing the X app or the Twitter app from their platform due to X's API policy requirements and pricing"
keywords:
  - "ai-news"
  - "ai-strategy"
  - "box"
  - "leadership"
  - "make"
  - "n8n"
  - "tutorials"
  - "twitter"
  - "workflows"
  - "x"
  - "zapier"
---

# How to Auto-post to X/Twitter from Make.com (2025 Methods)

Last Thursday, Make.com issued a statement saying that they were removing the X app or the Twitter app from their platform due to X's API policy requirements and pricing. That leaves a lot of us in the lurch that actually have X modules built into scenarios that are currently active as you see here. So, the hard deadline is the end of next month, May 30th, at which point scenarios that have these X modules built into them will start throwing errors and the scenarios themselves will fail and deactivate. Within the statement, they recommend users to explore alternative social media apps on make to serve your objectives and they list buffer and hootuite as two options. I was kind of surprised by this because there are native HTTP modules in make where you could actually hit the X API directly. In this video, I'm going to take make's advice and show you how you can set up Buffer to replace these X modules in your scenarios. But for those that are using elements of X's API that Buffer doesn't support, then you might find it interesting how I was able to use native HTTP modules to connect directly to their API to generate access tokens and to trigger API endpoints. The X app within N8N still works perfectly fine. So I'll also go through a third approach which is to create a simple workflow in N8N that's triggered by a web hook that can actually carry out the posting to X and then it can respond back to make so that your scenario can continue on its path. The reason may give for their decision to discontinue these modules is based on policy requirements and pricing. And if you look at their latest pricing, you can see why. The free plan has been absolutely suffocated since Elon Musk took over 2 and a half years ago. You used to be able to read half a million tweets per month via the API, whereas now it's restricted to retrieving up to 100 posts and creating 500 posts. So the creating 500 posts isn't actually too bad, but they've absolutely locked down the research side of the API. The pricing then of the lowest paid plan, which is the basic plan, jumped from $100 to $200 a month last October with a marginal increase in some of the thresholds. And for the likes of Make.com, they either would have had to pay for the pro plan or the enterprise plan. The pro plan starts at 5 grand a month. And for the very same reasons, Zapier removed their X integration in August of 2023 due to these pricing and policy changes. And they also pushed people towards Buffer and Hootsweet. So before we try to build out our own connection into the X API, let's check out what Buffer has to offer. And probably the first thing that jumps to mind here is that it's pretty reasonably priced. There is a free plan and they give you access to three channels. And if you compare that to Hootsweet, which was the other recommendation, their cheapest plan is $99 a month and their most popular plan they claim is their team plan at $250 a month. So definitely a little bit more enterprise than what Buffer has to offer. So to get started with Buffer, you just need to create an account and that'll bring you into this dashboard. And from here then it's pretty easy. So you just click connect to channel, you choose Twitter, and as long as you're already logged in to X, you'll see a screen like this, which allows you to authorize the app. So if we just click on that, it redirects you back. And from here, then you just confirm the account that you want to sync. And that's it. So very straightforward. And then if we X out of all of that and just click on new on the top right and click post and we're just going to put in test post. We'll drag in an image. We'll just click share now. And that's it. You can click view post. And there it is. So incredibly easy. I'll just delete that out. So now with that part of the connection set up within make.com you just need to come over to whatever scenario you have running that has an X module and then just right click and add a module and just type in buffer. What you're doing is you're creating a status update it's called and from here then you'll need to add a connection. So just click on save and then this loads up the OOTH popup for buffer which you can allow access and then you just need to copy in whatever variables you had populating out the text content in this case from your X or your Twitter module and then drop that in there. In this case this is a text post. We're not attaching media. So we can save that. And then we can do the same here. So if we clone this and we'll drop it in there. Let's get these out of the way. And for this one we are attaching media cuz this is the get a file and things are done a bit differently on buffer. So with the kind of standard X API, you had to upload a media item separately and then create the post. Here you just need to pass a publicly available URL. It seems link to an image. So if we just copy out this variable, which is the URL of the image that was been downloaded there and we'll just drop it into here. So let's test out the top stream. Now this scenario is actually part of our social media agent which uses WhatsApp. This is available in our community, the AI automators. It's an N8 social media agent that's able to post to lots of different platforms. So I have it waiting for a trigger event here. So let's just drop in a message. Can you post this test message to WhatsApp? So that's gone off to trigger our human in the loop which then provides us this link to approve. So we can now test this. So let me just click run once and we'll click this link. Okay. So we've triggered an error actually on the Twitter module. That's fine. What we'll do is we'll get rid of these old X modules now because we have buffer in place. So if I just clone this just to retain its configuration and I'll delete it from the track. We'll do the same here. We can delete these once we are fully up and running. Okay. And then we'll delete and delete. Let's now trigger it and we'll see how it works. So we'll click run once, click on the link. And yeah, that looks like it succeeded. And then if we come to Twitter and refresh, here we go. Yeah, test message from WhatsApp. And I've just dropped in a random number. Brilliant. So let's drop in this stock image. And I'm going to say, can you post this tweet as a caption for this image? And you can see in NAN it's downloading the image and then it's going to the social media agent to request the posting of the content. So we jump into our scenario now and let's trigger it. Okay, so we have hit an error with buffer picture parameter pass without thumbnail parameter. Okay, we just set the same image as a thumbnail. Yeah, that looks like it's doing something perfect. And let's have a look at our profile and refresh. Cool. There we go. There's our image messaged from WhatsApp with a random number. If it's a text post, you're simply just dropping the text in there. If you are appending media, it's just a publicly available URL. So there's no messing with binary or anything like that. Within Buffer, you can see the ones that have been sent. If your use case is to post tweets, images, gifts, or videos, then Buffer is a great platform. As you can see, it's very fast to actually swap out your old X modules with these Buffer modules. Incredibly, they have a free forever plan which supports up to three channels. And what's included is you can schedule 10 posts per month. The key word there is schedule. I believe you can post as many posts as you want per month. It's just that you can only put 10 into a queue to be scheduled. And that's the key selling point of Buffer is the idea of having a system where you can schedule posts per day, per week, or per month. You may already have a schedule set up on make.com in terms of how you actually trigger your scenarios, which means then you could just use the posting feature of Buffer and then there is no restriction. There is a daily posting limits page in their help center where X is mentioned as 100 posts per 24 hours is the limit. So, it's not really a limit on buffer side. And on this help center page, how many posts can I schedule in advance? It does confirm on the free plan, it's 10, but this is not a daily, weekly, or monthly limit. It's the number of posts you can store in each social channels queue at any one time. So, in reality, this is a great alternative and possibly even easier to set up than the original X modules were in the first place. Buffer doesn't support every endpoint in the X API platform. So if you are using some of the other endpoints that require let's say the basic or the pro plan then you'll need to integrate directly into this API to achieve what you want and that's what I set out to do here which was to use the native HTTP modules in make to hit specific endpoints on the X API platform. Here I'm hitting the version two tweets endpoint. This one is the version two media upload endpoint. And the challenge with this was authentication. So how do you generate this access token so that you can actually pass in this tweet? And if we look at the authentication section of X's developer platform, most of the endpoints require OOTH 2.0. And it's not just any standard OOTH 2.0. It's a specific variation of it that requires PKCE. This proof key of code exchange is an extension of OOTH designed to make OATH more secure. But the fact that the make.com oath module doesn't support this variation of it seems to be the reason why make are pushing people towards buffer and hootuite as an alternative as opposed to using this module to just integrate directly with the API. I came across this post on the make community where someone said that they managed to make it work by decomposing the OOTH flow into separate HTTP requests. So while this clearly doesn't sound like security best practice, I'm always up for a challenge. So I decided to try it out. It required going deep into understanding how OOTH actually works particularly around the PKCE aspect around code verification and challenges. This is what the end solution looks like. So the first scenario is we build up an authentication URL. We then have another scenario which generates an access token which is saved to a data store and then that access token is used in our scenario to trigger calls to the X API endpoints. So let's go through this step by step. In the first scenario, we build out an authentication URL. We need a few variables to actually build out this AL URL. So, if we click into this first module, number one, we need a client ID. This client ID is associated with the app within the X developer portal that you would have previously set up. You can see it here under OOTH 2.0. If you haven't actually set up a developer account on X, then I'll leave a link in the description to a video that my brother Allan put together where he goes through the process of creating an account on the developer portal, creating a project, and creating an app. So that's your client ID. You drop that in there. For the token generation web hook variable, what I've done is I've pasted in the web hook of a new scenario I've created on make, which is this one. So this is my generate Xac token scenario, and this is triggered by a web hook call. So I created this scenario, added the web hook, copied the address to clipboard and just pasted it in there. The third variable is state verification and this is very important to actually lock down this scenario otherwise anyone could trigger this scenario and generate an access token to your X account. And for this I've set a unique identifier which is a function within make.com. So if you just search for UYU ID, you'll see it as a variable. So that will be unique each time. The other thing you'll need is a client secret. And I could save that here as a variable, but it really isn't good practice to save client secrets in blueprints that could then be exported and sent elsewhere. So, what I'm doing is I actually have it as a scenario input here, client secret. And I've set this scenario to trigger on demand. So, when I click run once, I'll get a popup to enter the client secret. So, that way it'll never be saved in the scenario itself. Now, you do need to ensure that you set data is confidential in the settings. That way, your client's secret also isn't logged. Now, while these are great security tips, generally this approach does not follow security best practices, and I'll tell you why in a second. That's all of our variable setup. The next thing then is we need to save data to our data store. We need to save our client ID. We need to save that unique UU ID token we created cuz we need to verify it in the web hook in a minute. And then we're also saving the O header, which is required to actually generate and regenerate access tokens. The off header is just a base 64 of the client ID and then a colon and then the client secret. The fact that we're saving this to the data store is the issue because the data store is accessible via makes web interface and that's probably where it's not the most secure. O headers, client secrets, refresh tokens, all of this should be saved server side and not really accessible on a front end. Now, it is still locked behind a make.com login. It's not horrifically unsecure, but it doesn't follow best practices. So that's saved then to this data store which you can see here. And then from there we generate the URL and if we zoom in on this URL you can see we're hitting the authorize endpoint. We're looking for a response type of code. The client ID is what we've entered. The redirect URI is the web hook that we've set. Then you need to provide it a number of scopes. So we're providing tweet readad users read. Importantly we're providing offline.ac and this allows a refresh token to actually be generated. And that way you don't need to constantly keep reverifying your authentication. And then the last one is tweet.right. From there then we're setting the state which is this unique identifier that we created. And then these are the PKCE parameters. So code challenge equals challenge and the code challenge method equals plane. So this is the URL that we're generating. So from here then we'll click run once. We need to enter our client secret. It's visible on screen here but I'll be revoking all of these tokens after this video. So we'll click okay. And then that generates a URL as you can see there. So you just copy this out, open a new tab, and hit enter. But before we do that, we'll just come to our second scenario, and we're just going to click run once. So now then, we're going to paste that URL into a browser. And then this will bring you to the screen that you would normally get in a standard OOTH 2 flow as a popup. From here, you need to log into your account and click authorize. And you can see the scopes or the permissions that you're providing. So we click authorize app, and then it redirects to the web hook URL. And we're getting a message here, access token successfully generated. But actually I've created that response and this second scenario now has fired as you can see. So let's run through this scenario now that it's fired. So we've received the OOTH code that was generated from X's platform and then we have a get record from our data store because we want to fetch the details that were stored in the data store. So if I refresh here now all of this will have updated and then we have a router then which checks the state. So this is the security mechanism just to make sure that anyone isn't hitting this get access token endpoint that it's only you based off the code that you sent Twitter in the first place. So this is the state verification and as you can see the state verification in the data store is equal to what we got back from the web hook. So it can continue on this track otherwise it would fall back to here and it would say warning state parameter doesn't match and it means something dodgy is happening. So from here then we have a fetch token. So now we're hitting the second endpoint of this deconstructed OOTH2 flow which is to generate the token and we need to pass in our O header which is our client ID and client secret which has been base 64. We pass that in as a header. We're passing the code that we just received and then we're setting the grant type as authorization code. We're passing the client ID and we're also passing the same redirect URI which is important. Not that it calls it, but it just needs to verify it. And then the code verifier is challenge. And that's it. So then that generates your access token which then you get here. So there's your bearer token and you also get your refresh token from here. Then we're saving that access token and that refresh token to the data store. And we're also updating that state verification to a new number or a new string. And finally then we just have a web hook response which is access token successfully generated. Close the tab which is essentially what we got there. So that is our deconstructed ooth 2 flow. It is building an authentication URL, saving values to a data store as you can see there. And then once you click enter on that URL in a web browser and you go through the authorization process on X's platform, it then triggers this scenario which generates the access token using that second endpoint and it saves everything to the data store again. So I've mentioned security a couple of times. This here is the problem is having an al header and a refresh token in particular available in plain text. I did mess around with encrypting these because there is actually an encryption module in make.com. So you could use an AES encryption advanced and an AES decryption advanced. But again, the problem is the key to actually access those encryptions will also need to be saved somewhere in makes interface. So there really is no getting around it. So then onto our scenario to post a tweet and an image in this case here. What I'm doing is I'm getting a news story. So this is one on lama 4. I'm using Gina.ai just to generate markdown. But this is the page. I'm getting GPT4 mini just to write a tweet. And then I fetch the access token from the data store. And here I'm just saying I want to post a text, let's say, which is a tweet. So it'll come up this track. We'll create the body of the call. So we're creating that that kind of escaped JSON which is just the tweet just to make sure there isn't any kind of JSON unsafe characters in the tweet itself. And then we post the tweet. We'll be hitting this URL which is available in the API docs /2/weets. We're passing our bearer access token which we generated a minute ago and then the request content is what we generated there. The key thing about this flow and this is the problem with deconstructing an ooth 2 flow is that you need to manually create handling for refreshing the tokens. So if the access token expires, you then need to use the refresh token to generate a new access token. And that's what's happening here. This is an error track where if we're getting a 401 unauthorized error, then we're coming down this track, hitting our oath 2 token, and regenerating the token. So grant type now is refresh token. We're passing the refresh token from the data store and the client ID. Then that gives us a new access token and a new refresh token which we then save to the data store and that kind of closes the loop. So that's there. And because we're on this resume error track, I've just cloned this module. So it posts the tweet now with the new access token. So that's the same module that you saw a minute ago. So let's test it out. Let's click run once. We're getting the news story, writing the tweet, getting the access token from the data store, coming up this track. We've posted the tweet which is unleashing nextgen AI meeting the lama for herd. And because our access token was valid, we didn't need to go down the track to refresh it. And if we look here, then that is the tweet that we just created 23 seconds ago. So for the image version, we're just going to generate an image using replicate.com. We're going to download that image to get the binary and then we'll upload that image to the media-upload endpoint where we actually pass the binary as a multiart form data. Media is the key and then the binary is passed. And it's the same thing again. And if that upload fails for an expired access token, we need to refresh the token, save the new tokens and upload the image again and then resume. And from there, then we parse the body to fetch a media ID. We create the body which you can see here where we're passing the tweet that GPT4 generated as well as the media ID that we got from this upload module. And then we post the tweet, but this time the request content contains the media ID. Right? So let's give this one a go. So, we'll just say this is media type image and click save and run once. And now we're going down this track to generate an AI image. And actually, I've just got an error here, which is 403 forbidden, which indicates it's an authorization issue as opposed to an authentication issue. So, I think that's probably the scopes. So, if we go back into our generate URL, let's add a scope here. And I believe it's media.upload. Actually, no, it's media. Not media.upload. So, we'll save that. We'll run it with our client secret. That brings us to here. We can now authorize and it says upload media like posts and videos. That fired our web hook. So that changed our our access token in the data store. And now if we click run once again, we should now get a green here instead of a red failure. Yeah, that looks good. Yep. So that's uploaded the image and uploaded the tweet. So let's have a look at it. Let's refresh. And there we go. There's our llama for herd with our post as well. Great. So our deconstructed OOTH2 flow works on make.com. Not the easiest to implement. Clearly, Buffer is a much better solution if you're just looking to post a tweet. But it was interesting to learn how you can kind of push make.com outside of its comfort zone for something like this. I think it is a pity that there isn't a secrets or a vault section of make.com. The fact that it's not possible to store kind of refresh tokens or client secrets encrypted is kind of a big shortcoming of the platform and it's what you get out of the box with N8N. Which leads me to the third way that you can keep your X scenarios up and running, which is actually to use N8N. You can still have your make.com automations. And within our community, there's plenty of examples of where we have make.com scenarios that trigger N8 workflows and then the response from those workflows continues on the make.com scenario. The social media agent is an example of that. Because there's no AI agent native to make.com, we're using what's out of the box on N8N, but make.com's social integrations are a lot better than N8N. So, we're actually using the two hand inand as part of a kind of an overall system. So you could do the same here if you were to create a new workflow on N8N and let's just say the trigger here is to trigger manually for the moment. We'll change it to a web hook in a second. Just add a Twitter module and you can see there X formerly Twitter and then you can have create tweet and then the credential to select you can create a new credential and from here then you can just paste in your client ID and client secret that are available in the app section of your project on the developer platform on X. Just paste those in there and then click connect my account. That gives you your popup. You click authorize app, connection successful, and away you go. Clearly a lot easier than the make.com version of deconstructing this entire flow. And the reason it was that easy is that Nadn actually supports PKCE, this variation of the OAT 2 system. So this works out of the box as you see here. And you have access to the various resources like DMing or listing or searching for tweets, searching users, different operations like creating tweets, retweeting, deleting tweets. So all of that comes from the native module on N8N. And then from here then let's delete out this trigger and let's add a web hook trigger. We'll connect it up and we'll set this as a post. You should definitely put authorization on this. Let's just put in a a basic off for the moment. Let's create a new credential. So we'll call it Daniel. I'll just rightclick and I'll just get it to suggest a password. So there's my password. So we'll save that. And N has a full credential management system where you can store secrets as you can see here. So this is brilliant. So that's saved and we'll call this our make.com Twitter hook. And then what we'll do is let's just click listen for test event. And to show you how this would work, let's just copy these modules. We'll come over here and paste. We'll set the trigger to there get the news story and write the tweet. So then we can just add a HTTP module. So let's go to HTTP. And now we have set a basic off as authentication here. So we're going to make a basic al request. Then we can just add our credentials. So it was Daniel and this was the password. So we'll create that. We'll then hit this URL which is our test web hook. We're going to post to this. It's already going to send the off header here. So, we then just need to send a body. So, we just select raw and then JSON. And we could actually paste the content in here, but let's just grab our create body that we have up here somewhere. There it is. So, we'll copy that out. We'll drop it in there. Unlink link that up. And we'll just update this so that it's reflecting this module. So, there's the body then of our call. It's always good to use a create JSON module when generating bodies so that it'll automatically escape what you need. Okay. And then down here, we can drop that variable in. There's our JSON string. We'll run once. So, we're generating the tweet, creating the JSON payload, sending it into the web hook, and there's our message from make.com. And you can see the body and there's the text that we're getting for the tweet. So, to close the loop, then we'll just do a web hook response and the response code will be 200. And we can respond just with simple text, which is tweet successfully posted. Okay. Okay, so then let's click test workflow and we'll do this end to end and we'll just run our scenario again. And there you go. So it's received communication from make.com. It's posted the tweet and it's responded then to make. And if you come into X, you can see, yeah, this is my test tweet. So I just forgot to actually update this. So get rid of that. Drop in the text which is there. And then let's just do it one more time. You can see the message tweet successfully posted is there. And that's all green. And then if we refresh, yeah, we can see our tweet. So, if you already have an NAND instance and you have make.com scenarios like the one that we have here, if you didn't want to use Buffer, you absolutely could just drop in a HTTP module to trigger an N8 workflow and then you'll have full control within N8N on what you do. And this gives you access to the entire X API. So, if you're on a basic plan or a pro plan where you may have workflows around searching for topics or maybe brand monitoring, then this is probably the best approach. You could use the deconstructed OOTH approach that I've built here on Make, but there's a lot more work in actually setting it up and maintaining it. As I mentioned, it isn't the most secure in terms of having refreshed tokens and client secrets visible within your make.com account. I hope you found this video helpful. If you'd like to get access to these blueprints, including the social media agent, as well as my deconstructed OOTH 2Flow, then check out the link in the description to our community, the AI Automators, where you'll be joining hundreds of fellow automators, all looking to leverage the latest in AI to automate their businesses. We have a packed schedule of events and live workshops, all of which are recorded so you can play them back if you miss them. As well as over 100 system templates and blueprints, we also have a number of AI automation courses, including our make.com and NAND master classes, as well as an active discussions board where you can get your questions answered and keep up to date with the latest in AI. We'd love to see you here. Check out the link in the description for more. Thanks for watching and I'll see you the
